Hey everyone, thanks for jumping back
into the macroverse.
Today we're going to talk about the most
recent labor market report and we're
also going to talk about the markets. If
you guys like the content, make sure you
subscribe to the channel, give the video
a thumbs up, and also check out the sale
on into the cryptoverse premium at into
the cryptoverse.com.
We had the labor market reports this
week and honestly not too many
surprises. The unemployment rate came in
at 4.3%. Which is exactly where it was
uh previously. So not a huge change
there. If you go look at initial claims,
they also remain relatively low. Layoffs
remain relatively low. Still supporting
the idea that we're not yet in a
recession. Um this is a a a very long
process. But the point is is until
initial claims are printing 300K, I
don't really see this as recession
territory. I will say though going into
the summer is when claims start to pick
back up. Okay? So be aware of that. Like
if you look at 2023, you can see claims
went up into into the summer like June
of 2023. Um you can see we also went up
into the summer of 24. Um, and then of
course we went up into the summer into
June of 2025. So I wouldn't be that
surprised to see initial claims start to
rise from here, especially after getting
that that sharp low that we just got.
Um, so do keep an eye on that. So all in
all, the labor market, while there's
weakness in some areas, there's still
strength in others. So if you look at at
layoffs, I think they picked up a little
bit this past month, but they still
remain relatively low, right? right?
They still remain relatively low. Um
kind of like preandemic levels, if you
will. Initial claims low, layoffs low.
Job openings remain low. So, there's
some weakness. It's kind of hard to get
a job. It's hard to get a job if you
don't have one. That doesn't mean you
can't. Like, I I know that you you can
still get jobs because there are still
jobs available, but there's fewer job
openings uh than there are available
workers. So, job openings kind of remain
low. Quits remained low. I think they
surged back a little bit, but not not a
lot. The big one was hiring. It looks
like hires picked up a little bit this
past month. So, we'll see. That that is
a an interesting data point, and we'll
see if that actually holds and if it's
the start of a new trend or if it's just
sort of like a a one-off thing that that
doesn't actually um sustain itself, if
that makes sense. But remember, one of
the things you have to have in order to
have a recession and for the business
cycle to end is you have to have lower
asset prices. And as long as you don't
have lower asset prices, then it's it's
hard for the for the labor market to
truly roll over into that feedback loop
that we've talked about. And with the
stock market, a while back, we said we
would likely have a 10% drop. And from
there, we would likely get a rally that
could lead to all-time highs. We are at
all-time highs right now. And this might
seem weird, but that happens in midterm
years. I think a lot of people are are
sort of jaded by what happened in the
last midterm year, but in the two
midterm years before, the stock market
did put in new all-time highs throughout
parts of the midterm year. So, if you
look at 2018, we had a new all-time high
in January, but then we also had new
all-time highs going into September.
And if you look at 2014, you can see the
market trended up throughout 2014. And
there was also a big drop into October
of 2014. And you know, there was initial
weakness in February.
Market turned it up and then another
period of weakness in October. So what I
think is going to happen is I think you
you sort of have your initial weakness
here. And by the way, in 2018 there was
two major windows of weakness. early
part of the year and then the last part
of the year. It's the same thing, right?
208 2026 is probably the same thing
where you have your first window of
weakness in the early part of the year
and then you get another window of
weakness into the latter part of the
year and that will likely be what sort
of corresponds to the low for Bitcoin.
Again, I know it's it's far-fetched and
and a lot of people are really upset
that I I remain bearish on Bitcoin, but
there's just been so many rallies like
this in midterm years, and it's easy to
get caught up in the hype. But if there
is another correction coming for the
stock market later this year, which I
think there will be, then it will likely
correspond to Bitcoin going back down.
And you might say, well, Bitcoin's going
to catch up. The problem is is that's
not normally how it works for windows of
weakness. You have windows of weakness
and windows of strength. The assets that
are doing well during that window of
strength, they're doing well for a
reason. If Bitcoin Bitcoin's doing well,
but so what, right? Like it's it's still
underperforming a lot of other markets
this year. So, the problem is that the
NASDAQ's, you know, shooting up to
all-time highs. The stock market
shooting up to all-time highs. Bitcoin
has gone up, but it's still nowhere near
all-time highs. And that's not a
declaration that you're about to have
all-time highs. It's more so a
declaration that Bitcoin is weak
relative to the assets that are putting
in all-time highs. And when those assets
roll over and go back down potentially
for that secondary window of weakness in
the midterm years that we normally get,
that's how Bitcoin then goes back down
to the lows and probably puts in a a
lower low. So, and I don't know what the
narrative is going to be. It could be
energy stocks going back up. A lot of
times energy does very well at the end
of cycles and if the stock market's
still putting in new all-time highs,
then energy probably will as well. So
looking at things like XLE, I would
expect that to bounce back up uh in the
coming months. Um but you know, going
back going back just to sort of the
labor market stuff, if we want to look
at like the number of states where the
unemployment rate is rising compared to
say 6 months ago,
it is going up, but there's still
windows or pockets of strength. So if
you look at a map of the states where
the unemployment rate is rising over six
months ago, Yeah. like it is a lot of
states, but it's also looked like that
in other years as well, like 24 and 23.
But notice how every year it's not the
whole country affected. And if you look
at recessions
like 2008, it's the whole country.
2001, it's the whole country. So,
there's still pockets
of of optimism. and the market likes to
climb the wall of worry. So, the stock
market right now is is still following
the S&P M2 fractal, by the way, as crazy
as that sounds. And actually, in
February, that was one of the reasons I,
you know, I I mentioned this in the
first place was that, all right, well,
what if this thing continues like this?
Could it, you know, could it continue in
this fashion and and still mimic what we
saw back then? And look, I think this is
I think it's going to break. Honestly, I
I do think it's going to break. I don't
think this whole thing is going to play
out, but it hasn't really broken yet is
the point, right? Like it hasn't really
broken yet. And and this might be sort
of the fear that we have to live with
later this year is what happens if it
doesn't break? Like what happens if the
stock market does find a top within the
next few weeks, drops back down, and
then rallies up into September? Because
that's where September would be, that
top right there. And September is
exactly where the S&P topped in 2018.
You know, that's where it topped was in
September. I I believe um let me double
check that. But if you look at 2018,
yeah, it was it was right here in
September when the S&P 500 found found
that high um or around that period. I
guess I could zoom in, but you guys, I
think kind of get the uh the idea.
You can see it was the week of September
17th. The S&P hit a high of 29.40 and
that ended up marking the high for the
year. So, who's to say that it's not
following the S&P divided by M2 from
from back then? It very well could be,
but for now, I think you you know, you
look at the labor market and you say,
look, until you see lower asset prices,
you're unlikely to roll over into into a
recession. And um and while there is
weakness in parts of the labor market,
it is not yet widespread enough for it
to sort of trigger those recessionary
warnings. And if we look at the
recession risk dashboard, it still
remains
relatively low, right? And it's been
relatively low for, you know, for I
think since the last recession in 2020,
like we haven't even really had any like
major fake moves. This risk metric
hasn't even gone above 0.16 since 2020.
So, we'll keep an eye on this. I mean,
it's it's made up of the employment
area, national income and product
production and business. And also, you
can turn on interest rates on here as
well if you want. It's not as clean, but
it does provide a little bit more
signal. One of the reasons why interest
rate risk is good is because it tends to
be a little bit more forward-looking.
the other ones almost require a stock
market drop to, you know, to trigger,
but the interest rate one often triggers
a little bit earlier, but when you use
it, it makes it a little less clean. Um,
so, you know, going back over to the to
the labor market, I'm not sure if there
was any other major things that
happened. I guess we could look at total
non-farm. That's probably something to
look at. So if you look at uh well this
is the unemployment level but if we look
at um the employment statistics
employment level total non-farm
increased by a little over 100,000 so it
is still going up year-over-year change
is almost negative but not quite right
like year-over-year change is still
about a quarter million jobs. Um it's
really close to being negative but it
it's not there yet and who knows when it
will be negative. uh total temporary
health service employees. That looks
like it's it's starting to go up a
little bit here, right? Like you can see
it's actually been moving up since last
year. So, it's moving in the right
direction. Um but
it was moving in the right direction in
01 and then it and then we still had a
drop in the stock market. So, it doesn't
necessarily mean anything, but we'll see
how that develops. Um we also have
non-farm private payroll. This is from
the uh the automatic data processing
research institute the ADP. If you look
at the year-over-year change there, it's
it's been moving up a little bit
recently. So, that's a little that's
that's good to see in the in the labor
market. So, as of right now, the data in
the labor market is still holding up.
Layoffs remain low. The unemployment
rate remains relatively low.
Historically, as you go into the summer,
that's when initial claims start to pick
up. So, my guess would be that you'll
see initial claims start to pick up and
that might be reflected in the
unemployment rate as we get later on in
the summer. Um, and I do think you'll
have sort of like another correction in
the stock market later this year that
will likely culminate in sort of the
late Q3, early Q4 period, maybe even
later Q4, where that's what kind of
corresponds to that Bitcoin
drop into the back half of the year,
which is how it typically uh plays out.
But hopefully this has been useful to
you guys. And then that basically wraps
up, I think, our discussion here of the
labor market. If you guys like the
content, make sure you subscribe, give
the video a thumbs up, and check out
Benjamin Cowan.com. I'll see you guys
next time. Bye.